Arguments
Not all Bash scripts require arguments
but it is extremely important to
understand how they are interpreted by
Bash and how to use them.
We’ve already executed Linux commands with arguments.
For example, when we run ls -l /var/log…
…both -l and /var/log are arguments to
the ls command.
Bash scripts are no different–we can
supply command-line arguments and
use them in our scripts.
This simple script uses echo to display
a string.
The $1 and $2 variables represent the
first and second arguments passed
to the script.
In addition, $0 refers to the name of the
script itself.
Let’s give our script executable
permissions and run it while providing
two arguments.
As expected, our script runs and Bash
echoes the two arguments we provided.
There are a number of other special Bash
variables,
like dollar question mark to display
the exit status of the last process…
…and $RANDOM, which generates a random
number.
Refer to your lab guide for other
special Bash variables that you
can use in your scripts.